seven social media metrics you need to
track you might be on every single
meaningful social media site out there
but all your effort isn't really worth
anything unless you're tracking what's
driving your results and what's not
trust me there have been plenty of times
I post something out there and I thought
that was great but I gained no traction
sure I may have gotten some likes or
Impressions but those things really
didn't help my business grow
so what do I do after a post like that I
go to the numbers and not the big ones
like hey there are 4.5 billion users on
social media according to status that's
the obvious one and that doesn't really
help move the needle what I'm talking
about when I say numbers I'm talking
about the metrics the essential ones
that you know you need a track and you
need to optimize to maximize your return
on social media spend or just your time
on social media so metric number one
Reach This is an easy one reach is the
number of people who see your content
It's always important to ask yourself
two main questions with this one whether
or not you're reaching enough people if
you're reaching enough people why aren't
they converting nearly 75 percent of the
world's population over the age of 13
uses social media so your audience is
out there pay attention to important
subset of your reach what percentage is
made up of followers versus
non-pollowers
what percentage is made up from
followers within your ideal regions and
age range that you're targeting that's
the right fit to buy your product or
service if you're targeting the wrong
type of people you may want to adjust
your content look to see what some of
your competitors do so that way you can
Target the right people and generate
more sales
metric 2 Impressions medicine
Impressions grow 10 in 2021. yes if
they're seeing Impressions grow and 2022
and 2023 and over time numbers change
but when you think about this if these
social networks are seeing their
percentages grow your percentages should
also go but on the flip side if their
percentages are decreasing and yours are
decreasing you're like wait I'm not
getting as many Impressions what am I
doing wrong well let's say a social
platforms you know Impressions decrease
by 20 percent
but your impressions maintain flat that
means you're doing something right if
they're actually gaining users you would
be doing better but that's why your
tracking Impressions is super important
metric 3 engagement rate Facebook
engagement rate Benchmark is 0.06
percent Instagram engagement rate
Benchmark is 0.68 that just gives you
idea you want to be doing better than
your competition forget these bench you
know Mark stats instead the easiest way
to figure out how you're doing on all
the social networks is go look at your
competition see their engagement rate
with how many likes and comments they're
getting per post based on how many
followers they have so if they get a
thousand likes when they have a hundred
thousand followers that's a one percent
engagement rate if you're doing better
than your competition you're doing good
metric 4 amplification rate the ratio of
shares per post to the overall number of
followers coined by Avinash kushik the
author and digital marketer at Google
amplification is the rate at which your
followers take your content and share it
through their Network
so you want to really look at this
because you can see what kind of content
is helping you and which content isn't
really getting you the amplification
that you're looking for you want to
create more of the content that is
giving you the amplification and less of
the content that isn't getting you much
of it metric five virality rate similar
to amplification in that it measures how
much your content is shared but by
reality rate calculate share as a
percentage of The Impressions rather
than as an impression of followers
metric six audience growth rate how many
new followers are you getting on social
media over a certain period of time as a
percentage of your total audience here's
a tip for you if you want to grow your
audience fast get on Tick Tock it's the
fastest growing social network with 105
user growth in the US over the last
couple years
metric 7 social referrals according to
HUB thought consumers are 71 more likely
to make a purchase based on social
referrals
now social referrals are huge because
it's other people vouching for you
saying your product or your service is
good think of it as a version a review
or a rating on Amazon that's the same
concept with let's say social referrals
now a bonus metric for you and this is
the most important one which is why I
really want to save it for last and this
would technically be number eight is Roi
what is your Roi and social media what
posts are getting you the most return
versus which posts are generating very
little to nothing and you can track this
in Google analytics you can set up goal
and conversion tracking also when
someone completes a lead form or a
purchase or buys a service from your
signs up you can also survey them and
ask them how they find you and where
they sign up from this will give you an
idea of what channels are giving you
your biggest Roi and if they said hey
social media well what posts on social
media made you find me they may remember
they may not but it all helps out
especially when you combine that with
Google analytics goal tracking
now if you need help with your social
media marketing even setting up your
analytics and tracking your Roi from
social media check out my Ad Agency NP
digital if you enjoyed this video like
it share it tell the people about it if
you have questions leave a comment below
I'm here to help